# CS-340_Client-Server_Development

### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future? ###
It is important to write code that is maintainable and easily reuseable. Most of the code in this project was created specifically for the Austin Animal Center in mind, but it is created in a way that the code could be resused in other projects if necesarry. Additionally, all of the code has comments to show what each section of code does. This helps make the code easier to resue in the future. When working like the way we did in this project, we gain the advantage of being able to reuse code in the future as well as making it easier to implement in dashboards or more complex websites later.

### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests? ###
When a problem comes up I find it beneficial to look at the code in sections and run often to make sure that the code works properly. Especially when dealing with code that has a lot of brackets and parenthesis it is easy to miss something (as evident in my submission). When I built my pymongo CRUD functions, I tested each funcation as I finished to make sure that they each worked so that there where less issues when moving on to the dashboard. This also made testing easier, because it would be necessary to run some CRUD functions one after another to ensure everything was working properly. One last technique that I like to use (not just in computer programming) is to take a step back and come back after I have let my mind rest. I have solved some super complex issues by using this method and it never ceases to amaze me.

In the future there are other techniques that I think I could use to make the programming process easier. One of them would be to use a more user friendly Python IDE. I feel like Jupyter notebooks are great, but very limiting and definately can show who actually knows their stuff and who is hiding behind a strong IDE. It might also be benificial to write in print statements to show what line has been reached before the error. This is a technique that has helped me in the past, but not one I used for this project.

### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better? ###
Computer scientists help connect the user to data and information that might otherwise not be accessable. It also alows the user to sort through more data than individuals in the past would have been able to ever see. This can help bring change to individuals, businesses, govornments, and more. Rather than spending all their time searching through paperwork or data, they can streamline the process and get the information that they need. It is also beneficial in connecting individuals together to help share data among a large group of people. Overall it is just amazing in the interconnectivity of society and how computer scientists play a role in this interconnectivity.
